Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
- We've got two or three.
- Is that a good thing?
See the summit of the mountain?
Look at the ridge on the left.
Does it cause avalanches?
Yeah. if it breaks up
it can cause big avalanches.
On the plus side
it's not the only mountain.
Yeah.
It's bloody freezing.
But we're all kitted out
in our wetsuits.
I've never seen anything like it.
Mountains and sea at the same time.
I just followed the pros.
Being in the river isn't just seeing
nature. it's belonging to nature.
It's an incredible feeling
that you just can't explain.
It's like...
It's like a church
that wasn't made for humans
and you can feel everything inside it.
All the feelings are incredible.
Agua Azul is one of the most
incredible rivers I've been in.
It's wonderful. it's beautiful...
but it's not only beautiful.
it's also a monster.
there's a lot of hidden danger
behind the beauty.
I came to Agua Azul
to discover a branch of this river
that hadn't yet been explored.
where it runs beside this special rock
which gives the river
its fantastic color.
I met Éric five years ago when
he came to Mexico for the first time.
Ever since then I've wanted
to be as passionate as he is.
ZAPATISTA COUNTRY
The Zapatistas are good people
who try to do their best
for their community.
All they want
is to protect their land.
They let us cross part of their land.
which is very important to them.
to reach some incredible places
where very few people have been.
We were far from everything.
no phones.
so no helicopters would be coming
to find us in half an hour.
It would be a whole day's walk.
I met Sofia five years ago
when she'd just started kayaking.
Now she's got
a lot of rivers under her belt.
I've no doubt she'll be
one of the best in the world.
I felt a bit like a skier
planting his pole on a slope.
You never know
if you'll take off or not
so you need to stay alert
and hold it all together.
It's an amazing sensation. you feel
like you're skiing down a mountain
but you're
in the middle of the jungle.
This river is truly incredible.
You can understand
why the Zapatistas want to protect it.
I've never seen an ecosystem like it.
It's so pure.
To have something like that
on our planet today is really unique.
It's a huge privilege
to be in touch with nature.
By not only seeing it but experiencing
it when you're in the river.
you become part of it.
It's not just something
that you can see.
it's something that you can belong to.
I hope the snow's good. It rained
yesterday and didn't freeze overnight.
We'll see.
We started shooting in the Aravis.
where I'm from.
I was really happy
to be filming at home.
I was really nervous
because of last year's shoot.
I had my biggest crash ever
on the first run.
Once you're up on a face
to shoot the film
you're up there on your own.
sometimes waiting 10 or 15 minutes.
It's definitely not the same approach.
The stress builds up and
there's nobody there to reassure you.
I'm a bit nervous about the shoot
and being alone on the face.
I feel good on my skis.
I'm happy up on the face
so I hope we'll have good conditions
over the next few days for riding.
It was a glorious day.
We were here in the Aravis.
in my mountains.
It was an absolutely perfect day.
More than perfect.
Hopefully we'll have
more days like this.
It's brilliant.
We've been good friends
for a long time.
It's the first time
we've ridden together.
We skied together a few years ago.
From that moment on. there was snow.
The conditions were crazy.
it was a proper winter.
the kind we hadn't seen for ages.
There was even more snow
than last year.
You think. "It's going to be twice as
heavy as last year. I'll be crushed."
You need more than courage to try it.
You can't afford to make any mistakes.
You mustn't fall on this mountain.
We didn't know
if the snow was stable or not.
I decided to let them do a run
and watch them.
Wille was lucky enough
to do the first run on Le Buet.
I was watching his line.
It was amazing. fantastic conditions.
really stable snow.
He just let himself go.
It's pretty impressive today.
But I'd rather be in my machine
than down there.
Seb. I think we should go there.
Sure. Thierry. I'm on my way.
I just saw Wille and Matt riding
and they blew my mind.
They did some crazy lines.
It's nothing like the freeriding
I know. it's not the same sport.
You've got all these huge faces.
drops of over 800 meters.
I've never done freeriding
like this before. It's spectacular.
All I wanted was for it to be my turn.
Made it! Second run. We're
getting closer to last year's line.
We'll end up going there. I think.
It was my turn.
I was at the top of the face.
It felt weird
being in the same place as last year
and about to do the line
where I broke my back.
You need to focus on the line.
There's so much going on in your head.
If you're not focused on the line
you can't do it. you can't ride.
It's the only time in my life
that I've seen conditions like that.
All that snow and so stable.
It was incredible. I don't know
if we'll ever see that again.
Have you seen those waves?
Karsten's with us in Tahiti now.
He took us surfing in freezing water.
I couldn't tell you how cold it was.
Now he's in Tahiti
it's our turn. with Tika.
to show him our daily routine.
Filming La Nuit de la Glisse
every year
is a huge pleasure for us
because we've built up
some really strong friendships.
Teahupoo is the village where I live.
I do most of my surfing there.
It's where my best surf spots are.
I grew up in this environment.
In 2015
I won the Tube of the Year award
in front of my idols.
which was so cool.
Thanks to Teahupoo
all the best surfers in the world
have heard about us
and when they come to Tahiti
they know who I am and who Tika is.
In April 2011 there was a massive
swell. the first one I'd ever seen.
I was swimming in the sea
and there were tow-in waves.
I got hit on the head
by one of the biggest waves.
There was another one behind it.
then another one.
I couldn't reach the lagoon because
I was trapped in the impact zone.
As the last wave came
I fell and I thought.
"You've got no strength left.
you can't even dive or swim.
"Just give up."
I was absolutely done in.
Then the water patrol came.
I was floating on the surface
and they grabbed me.
I coughed up blood. I opened my eyes
but everything was white.
I was in Teahupoo.
where the boats are.
but I didn't know where I was.
I couldn't speak for a few hours.
I just cried. I was in a bad way.
And my big brother said.
"Either you go back to Teahupoo
"knowing that nothing
can be worse than this.
"or you don't go back to Teahupoo."
That's when I got it about big waves.
I want to surf the biggest waves
in the world. that's my goal.
A massive swell was forecast
for Hawaii.
When I got to the Jaws break I was
scared but couldn't wait to surf.
It was huge.
between 12 and 15 meters high.
When you surf dangerous waves.
your line is very important.
That's what has made
a lot of surfers successful.
They approached one single wave
in a particular way
and now they're renowned
for being great surfers.
As we crossed over to the peninsula
we noticed a track of foam
breaking behind us
and knew there would be big waves.
We went straight into the water.
We realized that surfing
would be quite tricky.
You needed good positioning.
You'd either come out smiling
or come out injured.
There's always danger.
it never goes away.
There's a meter of water
and if you fall you're going
to hit the reef sooner or later.
You can see it on our skin now.
I've got scars everywhere. on my arms.
on my back. sometimes even on my face.
It comes with the territory.
I think there are three levels
when you practice sport.
There's a physical level.
You usually focus most on this. with
training playing an important part.
but you reach a point
where your body gets tired.
Then mental strength takes over.
the willpower which helps you
to push yourself
beyond this physical fatigue.
If you don't give up. a kind of
spiritual energy comes into play.
giving you the strength you need
to reach your goal.
We are able to live
in a space between life and death
which gives us immense freedom.
I'm a child of the sea.
I feel more at home
in the sea than on land.
I've felt like a child of the sea
ever since I was little.
When I'm in the water
I feel free and happy.
I met Jesse Richman a few years ago.
He's an amazing guy because he's
always so positive. always smiling.
He's got this incredible calmness
and fantastic energy.
It's wonderful being able to share
magical moments in the water.
Yesterday we did a dive at the
drop-off beyond the reef with Jesse
as a practice for my next competition.
I've always been really moved
ever since I first heard them.
Look. 100 meters. 200 meters.
- 200 meters.
- 100 with the whale calf.
Wow. it's the same one as just now.
We're in September. one of the seasons
for whales here in Polynesia.
They come to Polynesia to give birth.
It's a great source of pride
for us Tahitians.
I tried to approach
as softly as I could
to show that I didn't mean
to cause any trouble.
It was such an incredible feeling.
I talked to a shaman a few years ago
and she told me
I was a whale in a previous life.
I didn't know
whether to believe her or not.
I think the mother let her calf
play with me.
He became interested in my movements
and started playing with me.
It really was an incredible feeling.
I think we athletes have a mission
to inspire young people
to become passionate
about sport and nature.
It's very important
to respect our planet nowadays.
Those of us who are privileged
enough to explore its depths
understand how important it is
to respect it.
I'd have liked to do a run. for sure.
But we are working. you know!